# Meeting
18th May 2018, 4pm BST

# Agenda 
- Who is monitoring what?
- What should we tackle? 
- Agree next steps
- AOB

# Minutes
Found [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CtEI0fWZmmbR6O442RF4iBgnqefMdA4CRfRXyLtKPjE/edit)

## Attendees
Mevan  
Ed  
Giovanni  
Dan  
Christopher  
Sandro  
Pablo  

## Actions
* Everyone to join Github
* Mevan to carry over all the assets from Google Drive into Github into a reference repo
* Dan to solve read/write permissions issue
* Dan to make a few of us admins
* Mevan to write down Global Fact deliverables
* All to start working in core repo in 3 working groups: newspapers, TV etc, social media
