# Notes from Technical Standards committee meeting 06/08/18

Mevan: not everyone is working on the same things at the moment.

Jari: Not doing a lot of automatic monitoring right now, but reorganized the process. Also collecting a lot of social media data using CrowdTangle, and subtitle feeds from public broadcasts, but quality is poor. Thinking about applying for funding with universities in Sweden. Time an issue! Rest of time at newspaper.

Mevan: Because of this separation of tasks we thought about splitting in different working groups (monitoring and tv for now). So far not much activity on either of the two tasks. It's OK, since we all very busy, after all it was a bit ambitious to come up with standards in such a short time frame. Idea was for FF and Cheq to present some of their results for GlobalFact, but not quite ready yet either. So in the time left, thinking about changing the format of the working group. Let's focus on monitoring only and use the session at GlobalFact to talk about prototype of monitoring standard drafted by FF, and use the time there to start thinking on how to implement it. Think it's much better use of everyone's limited time. Ideas?

              All people present at the meeting OK with this plan.

Pablo: We at Chequeado are learning by doing, so it is important to push it forward, but since learning everything is OK!

Mevan: Building momentum hard, it is OK in the next week if we build something and then share it with everyone else at GF.

Jari: What would you like us to bring at GF?

Mevan: Examples of newspapers you would like to monitor, websites, social media, etc. Mainly thinking news papers and RSS-feed-y kind of things. Three examples of that as starting point? Plus thoughts and ideas.

Mevan: Also proposing skipping meeting next week.

Chris: As long as iterations are on github that would be cool. Maybe start thread we can all subscribe to there.

Giovanni: what about future meetings?

Mevan: Perhaps better to do one full cycle with one person starting and then come back to the rest of the group. Keeping it task oriented more valuable. At least one full cycle at GF.

Ed: Thinking about first pass at ClaimReview improvements a good desiderata. Maybe that's feasible in a month's time? Could be standards, best practices, etc? Have one person/team responsible for starting a good idea, perhaps then we can decide what output to have for it, for example a blog post of best practices? Also path of this group to W3C, let's think of putting some document in front of them eventually.

Mevan: That's a good way of working. But we want to keep it very practical and focused. Discussions in theoretical group good that are happening and this group should feed into them, but I think important to do at least one full loop. That's something we have that other groups don't have. But absolutely good to think about ClaimReview also in terms of the philosophy of it.

Giovanni: very interesting about ClaimReview + tracking spreading! We have student building database of claimreview-marked pages.

Ed: What is the philosophical discussion about ClaimReview (to Mevan)?

Mevan: Right now it is a distribution mechanism for many different types of content, some people think of claims, some of factchecks, and there are many different ways of using it. This raises many questions. For example do you need a claimreview per sighting, or one per claim and all its sightings, etc? Quite a lot of complexity. Dangerous even to about making choices with unknown consequences at scale. Especially since Google is using it and it is already used at scale, somehow.

Ed: And it might need to be split into many different standards.

Chris: leaving, thanks, great idea.

Ed: Agree. Complexities will need to be reflected in any meaningful standard. Example: a good standard should indicate if a claim is tightly bound to a single individual or pervasively asserted. We should not be discouraged by these challenges.

Mevan: Agrees. We should test thoroughly. Rushing can lead to incorrect outcomes. 

Ed: Especially when accessing the sources of claims is important, and comparing it to reviews of, say, restaurants!

Jari: OK using github for collaboration. 

Giovanni: important to have such a conversation.

Mevan: Global Fact will be a great opportunity for that.

Pablo: Let's talk afterwards if FF and Chequeado can make something happens for GF.
